D&D: Only A Game? Answer: Yes!
By Marcus Pan

Recently, while sitting around a campfire with friends, the subject of talk turned to role playing games. Of course, it was AD&D in particular. As the discussion moved on, one of my fellowman pulled out a pamphlet entitled, "D&D: Only a Game?" Written by a group calling themselves the Christian Life Ministries, it details the "evils" of Dungeons and Dragons. Needless to say, we had many laughs at this piece of work.

Hilarious as it was, this pamphlet was still attacking all RPG players everywhere. It was the "last straw". I sat through all the scoffing, the insinuations of "extreme Satanism and evilness" within the game and I have listened to psychiatric arguments against the game. I've even been psychiatrically evaluated as an "evil, non-conforming, definitely Satanic person. Avid D&D fan..." myself. But I will no longer sit idly by while the wonderful game of Dungeons and Dragons is made a mockery of.

Welcome to the first part of a three-part series retaliating against these hypocrites.

Part I - Christian Hypocrites

Warning: If you are an orthodox Christian who is easily religiously offended and do not have an open mind to other people's opinions…

BURN THIS MAG NOW!

Aanton Szandor LaVey summed it up best in his Satanic Bible. I believe he hit it right when he stated the Christian church as hypocritical. I find this true in many instances and will chronicle my beliefs here for you. But I must say, these people (and I use this term loosely) calling themselves the Christian Life Ministries take hypocrisy to the point where I actually find it intriguing.

First of all, how can anyone or anything be "All-Forgiving"? In other words, no matter what you do, no matter how many sins you commit, "God" will forgive you with no questions asked? I wish the legal system was like that. In other words, no sin, however great, is unforgivable. I have seen the spawn of hypocrisy this breeds as I watch people sin greatly through the week, then forgiven on church Sunday only to perform these very same sins again. It forms a chain of fallacy which is hilarious to watch.

The Christian Bible tells us to "turn the other cheek". I have yet, throughout my entire life, found anyone, of Christian faith or otherwise, follow this commandment. Nobody I know will sit idly by while some crazed lunatic who is frothing at the mouth beats the living pulp from their bodies. Everyone I have known will strike back and of you, dear reader, claim you will not you are either lying or don't know anything about the world we live in.

"If one person hits you in the cheek, SMITE him in the OTHER!"
--Anton Szandor LaVey--
Father of the Church of Satan
--Satanic Bible--

The above is a "Rule of the World", and if you claim otherwise you are obviously lost and out-of-touch with reality.

Meanwhile, the Christian Life Ministries take this idea of sinning even further. According to them, if you so much as think an "unpure" or "evil" thought you are guilty of performing this thought. For example, if you get into an argument with another person and think to yourself, "I could just kill you..." you are a murderer. Haven't we all done this? I'm sure you have. Well, I say what's the big deal? Just simply look to the sky, mutter a half-hearted apology and you are forgiven. Right? This is the load of crap these hypocrites teach.

And the foolish shall cower, and crawl into their holes...

Part II - Fair is Foul and Foul is Fair

Welcome to part two of a three-part retaliatory series. Again, if you missed out on the first issue of Legends, this retaliation is directed to a radical group dubbed the Christian Life Ministries. [see issue 1 for details] On with the fight...

While these radicals strive to vanquish evil (or at least what they perceive to be) in all it's demonic forms, I was hoping they could try to answer this simple question: Where would you be without evil? What would you fight and why? My dictionary defines evil as "morally bad or wrong." Something having morals must be alive and intelligent. The game of Dungeons and Dragons is not alive, so with the definition of evil given above, how can it be described as such?

Also, the law of order declares that good can not exist without the presence of evil. How could you define one without the other? Consider this example:

light: "brightness"
dark: "lacking light or brightness"

Notice how the word "light" is required in the definition of the word "dark". It is obvious that one can not be defined without the other, and consequently they can not exist without both being present. And it is a suitable example as well, considering "good" and "evil" are often times described as "light" and "dark". Therefore, if "evil" is destroyed (chuckle), what do you become Christian Life Ministries?

Every man is different. That is a well-known fact in this world. Persecuting a man for his beliefs or, as ridiculous as it may sound, because of a game he plays for fun and leisure is, as I perceive, evil in all it's forms. One man's evil is another man's good. Concentrate on this world's true evils instead of attempting to guide those who have no use for your preachings. Remember:

"Fair is foul, and foul is fair."
-William Shakespear-
--Macbeth--

Is he evil too?

Stay in your holes...it's safer whilst I'm alive.

Part III - Testimony of a True Adventurer

This is the third, and final, installment of our retaliatory series...

I have been playing and running role playing games for a number of years now and I admit I am crazy. However, I have been crazy long before I even heard of RPG's. One of the writers for the Christian Life Ministries quoted this: "I've seen people have fits, yell for fifteen minutes, hurl dice at a grand piano when their character dies." So what? I've seen people hurl die-cast metal shoes at others when they land on Park Place (and believe me, those things hurt). Are you going to ban Monopoly too?

In another section they mention a phone call received by one of their members. It was about a young man who shot himself with his father's service revolver. Their evaluation of why was because he was "heavily involved in D&D for two years." They neglected to tell the following facts, which I learned from a friend who has seen this report: The boy's father was a drunk and a drug addict. His mother was thrown out of the house by his father. He regularly abused his son, and the boy was also a drinker and a druggie. The way I see it, D&D could very well have been the child's "gateway" out of his misery. Maybe, if not for D&D, he would have committed suicide much sooner.

And how about the psychiatrist who was quoted as saying: "If I had a child that tended toward schizophrenia, I'd never let him near D&D. There's a danger that it would reinforce feelings of grandiosity, of omnipotence. Reality and fantasy are hard enough for schizophrenics to differentiate..." Well, if I had a child like that, I wouldn't even let him play Monopoly.

And another item where two people were convicted of firing rounds into passing cars. They said they "constantly fantasized about killing someone." What does this have to do with D&D? These two made no reference to the game.

I have killed and been killed in D&D, yet I have yet to be convicted of a murder. Give all the facts, Christian Life Ministries.

I have said my piece...
---
Published originally in Legends #1-#3.
The above item may have been edited by the author since its first appearance in print.
Mispelling edits 11/15/23. Minor edits 11/23/23 & 12/1/23.
